#Welcome to the Computer Science Capstone Project- Professional Assessment

Through this computer science capstone that I have taken at the end of my bachelor's in computer science degree, it has allowed to expand my skills as a developer by showcasing my ability to make a functioning full stack project. This does not showcase my abilities to make a good looking web interface. The main focus of this project is functionality. I used my skills in the following areas to complete this project: HTML, CSS, Bottle, MariaDB, Javascript, and python. In the future, I would like to eventually work as a full stack or front end developer. This project showcases my ability to do so in a professional setting. MariaDB is what the back end database is comprised of. The frontend is comprised of HTML, CSS, and Bottle, and the API and CRUD features are made of python. Though I am currently employed in the computer science field, I believe this project made me more employable by expanding my knowledge of how the backend, frontend, and API communicate with each other. In order to accomplish what was needed to connect these all together, I had to do some research on how they canwork together and what is the process by which the do so. This has given me a clearer knowledge of each area and made me mroe confident in my programming skills for each. 

### Collaborating In a Team Environment

Though this class did not require that I work in a team environment, there was another class this semester that allowed me the opportunity to do so. The course was called. Collabortion and Team Project. The main objective of this course was to learn Git and work as a team to complete a working calculator application as well as an application that would pull playlists foreach student in the class. It required all of us to use local repositories so that we may work independently of the master branch and at our own pace to complete the pieces of the project. It required that we learn how to resolve commit conflicts so as to not cause further issues when it came time to merge the branches into the master branch. Since there were many people working on the project at once, I faced many conflicts with the code that required that I work with the other teammate to resolve. It taught us the importance of checking out the most recent and updated version of the code that we were to work with to ensure that none of us were doing work that had already been completed. It also taught the importance of code reviews. Code reviews allowed me to make necessary changes to my application such as adding further commenting to enhance readability. Overall, this class helped teach me how in a professional development setting a team would be able to work together without the need to be in the office or grouped into an area to program. 

### Communication with Stakeholders

Before this class, I took several computer science business courses that explained the importance of communication with stakeholders. Before moving forward with a project, it is very important to communicate with stakeholders what is being planned in the future to determine if this is the best move forward. I was taught how to make proposals to such entities within a company by gathering market data, analyzing it, and presenting it in high level language to the stakeholders in an effort to explain the necessity for features. I was also taught how to create use cases which can be referenced, as well, within those meetings with relevant customer data attached. Overall, it taught the need of constant, proper communication with stakeholders so that all members are on board with any changes that will be occurring as well as their requested changes. This project would be something used as a proof of concept to present to stakeholders to show why such functionalities would be necessary, and that they are able to be accomplished. It reminded me of that class as I considered how I would approach stakeholders in the future if the need arised. 

### Data Structures and Algorithms

For the data structures and algorithms portion of this project, I added an insertion sort algorithm that searches through the list and inserts items that match the sort value to the top of the list. This assisted in improving my understanding in how algorithms are written as well as their general purpose in computer science. I selected this item because it improves the readability of the list. At times, a user will need to see the whole list, but the most important items will need to be in a spot where they can be easily seen. By bringing these to the top of the list, it allows the user to easily find and read through the most significant pieces of information in the list while not neglecting the other items there. This artifact shows my understanding of how sorts work and how algorithm should be put together and properly commented. This algorithm may be found under get_search. Proper commenting has been added to this artifact to improve it for readability. I also included error messages in case sort values had not been determined. This shows my knowledge of how important proper error messages are for the user who is using the program. It is important to be able to quickly determine what is wrong so that it may be fixed.

### Software Engineering 

I updated the program to allow for searching of any criteria within the curl instead of just business names. The original program had CRUD features, a database, and an API, but it only allowed a search to be done by business name. I included this within my portfolio because the original function was very limiting to what it could search by. This allows any part of the database to be searched and will return the entire result back to for the request. This is why I decided to update this item. It seemed impractical to only allow searching by a specific column within the table of the database. It also allows for it to be more modular since a specific column was no longer being called for. I believe this shows my understanding in why modular programming is important. It also shows a basic understanding of iterating over information using a for loop as well as how a function should be defined. I did meet the course objective I planned to meet in module one almost exactly how I had planned to accomplish it, as well. I did have to do some researching on how request.query returns information as I had not been aware before now that it returns in the form of a dictionary. I got a better grasp on how request.query worked due to this as well as a better concept of modular programming using iterations. 

### Database

This has added a full stack element to the existing API and CRUD functionalities that were previously created. I choose to include this artifact in my final project because I had been wanting to have a full stack project on my portfolio for a while, but I had not had time to do so. When I saw that it was an option, I decided to move forward with it. User interfaces are incredibly common and make a program useful for the common user who has very little experience in programming. Having the experience on how to put one together will be important moving forward in my career. I used my knowledge of HTML, Javascript, Python, and Bottle to make this element of my project and I believe it showcase these skills well. HTML and Javascript were used in the website interface to allow the user to use the CRUD features I had previously programmed. I used python to make necessary edits to my API so that it would work well with the front end and back end. I used my knowledge of Bottle and Python to ensure that the connections between the database, API, and front end worked. This artifact has drastically improved by allowing regular users access to the program without needing to work in a terminal shell. I believe this demonstrates my ability to work with the infrascture of a program in a more in depth capaity as it required me to connect all three elements of the program in a way that they could be hosted on a server and work. I also put the website on a server in an effort to demonstrate my web administration knowledge. 

### Summary

In conclusion, this project as a whole shows my abilities as a programmer to work in any department of development that uses the stack I choose for this project. It also ensures that even if the stack I choose was not used, that I have an understanding of how these all work together to form a final product. By using such a diverse stack, it shows that I have the capability of using multiple talents once as well as the ability to learn how to do such a thing. It shows a wide range of concepts regarding frontend, backend, and API communication. It also showcases my ability to work with databases as a database analyst. By including the algorithm, I have demonstrated at least a basic knowledge of how such programs would be created as well as their importance in the computer science field by considering a business use case where this would be necessary. By updating the search feature, it has shown my knowledge of python as well as my understanding of the importance of modular programming. Before this, that code block could not have been used independantly of the project I was working on. Now that it has been updated, it may be used in a variety of instances. My work with the database allowed me to showcase my skills in a full stack environment. It allowed me to create a friendly user interface that shows the functionality of all the moving pieces which I had already created. 

